Super Smash Brothers Ultimate is a video game developed by Nintendo, a video game company, where many of Nintendo's characters and third party characters brawl it out. The game was launched on December 8, 2018, and has since solid over 70 million copies. The game features 90 playable characters and 100 stages to play on. Characters include the iconic Mario and Luigi, Pikachu, and Kirby, and lesser known characters like Fox McCloud and Captain Falcon. The game can be played by up to 8 people.
The game is designed to be fun for all skill levels, but is has an underlying complexity that gives the game an incredibly high skill ceiling. This has garned a sizeable community that plays the game competitively. In Victoria, tournaments are held weekly and can have 30 to 50 people attend. The Victoria is friendly and welcoming, and all are welcome to join. A player named Machu is the undisputed best on the island, and he often travels internationally to compete in the game. Other fearsome players include Efeo, Ryn, Lam, Furaze, Whisdom, Cook, and Odii. Of these, Furaze distinguishes himself as the next most formidable on the island. Furaze often defeats the others effortlessly, and has an extremely exciting style.
Odii often has the best players gather in his two-room apartment to play for hours, trying to hone their skills. Odii's generosity has been a major factor in the improvement of the Victoria scene, which has started to overshadow other regions on Vancouver Island. The main tournament organizer, or TO, is Brady "Chang" Chan. Brady recently moved to Victoria and has since hosted two major tournaments and increased attendance of the Victoria tournaments greatly. He uses extra capital from the tournaments to create incentives for non-Victoria players to travel, and Victoria players to show up.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate[a] is a 2018 Japanese crossover fighting game developed by Bandai Namco Studios and Sora Ltd. and published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Switch. It is the fifth installment in the Super Smash Bros. series, succeeding Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U. The game follows the series' traditional style of gameplay: controlling one of the various characters, players must use differing attacks to weaken their opponents and knock them out of an arena. It features a wide variety of game modes, including a campaign for single-player and multiplayer versus modes. Ultimate features 89 playable fighters, including all characters from previous Super Smash Bros. games alongside newcomers. The roster ranges from Nintendo mascots to characters from third-party franchises.
Planning for the game had begun by December 2015, with full development starting after the completion of 3DS/Wii U's downloadable content (DLC). Series creator and director Masahiro Sakurai returned along with Bandai Namco Studios and Sora, the studios that developed 3DS/Wii U, with the return of the studios speeding up the preparation process. Sakurai's goal with Ultimate was to include every character from previous games in the series despite the various development and licensing challenges this would present. Several well-known video game musicians contributed to the soundtrack, with Hideki Sakamoto writing the main theme "Lifelight".
Nintendo first teased Ultimate in a Nintendo Direct in March 2018 and fully revealed it at E3 2018 the following June. It later received two additional Directs before it was released on December 7, 2018. The game received universal acclaim, with some critics calling it the best of the series. They praised its amount of content and fine-tuning of existing Smash gameplay elements, although its online mode received criticism. Ultimate is the best-selling fighting game of all time, having nearly sold 25 million copies by June 2021, and is a popular competitive fighting game. The game was supported with downloadable content adding new fighters, stages, and other content from its release until October 2021.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is a platform fighter for up to eight players in which characters from Nintendo games and other third-party franchises must try to knock each other out of an arena. Each player has a percentage meter, which raises when they take damage, making them easier to launch in the air and out of the arena.[1] Standard battles use one of three victory conditions: Timed, where players aim to win the most points by defeating opponents within a time limit; Stock, where players have a set number of lives and must aim to be the last player standing; and Stamina, where players must simply reduce their opponent's health down to zero to defeat them. Players can adjust the rules to their liking and save them as presets for future matches.
Players can use various items to attack enemies or grant them power-ups, along with Poké Balls and Assist Trophies, which respectively summon Pokémon and other non-playable characters to assist them in battle. In Timed matches, certain Assist Trophies can be attacked and defeated to earn points.[3][4][5] Each character also possesses a powerful Final Smash attack, which can be performed either by obtaining a Smash Ball or by filling up a special meter, both of which can be toggled on and off.[3][4][5] The game features 104 different stages included in the base game, with additional ones coming packaged with DLC fighters. They can all be played in alternative Battlefield and Omega forms or can be toggled to remove stage hazards. A new feature called Stage Morph allows players to select two stages that the game alternates between at certain intervals during a match.[6][7][8] Other tweaks include new icons and gauges for character-specific abilities, such as Cloud's Limit gauge.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, as with other games in the Super Smash Bros. series, features a crossover cast of fighters from several different Nintendo franchises, as well as fighters from series by third-party developers such as Konami, Sega, Capcom, Bandai Namco Entertainment, Square Enix, PlatinumGames, Atlus, Microsoft, SNK, Mojang Studios, and Disney. The base game features 74 playable fighters,[b] consisting of all 63 previous fighters from past entries and 11 new ones: the Inklings from Splatoon; Princess Daisy from the Mario series; Ridley and Dark Samus from the Metroid series; Simon Belmont and Richter Belmont from the Castlevania series; Chrom from Fire Emblem Awakening; King K. Rool from the Donkey Kong series; Isabelle from the Animal Crossing series; Ken Masters from the Street Fighter series; and Incineroar from Pokémon Sun and Moon.[26] When starting the game, players only have access to the eight starter characters of the original 1999 Super Smash Bros. game and must unlock the rest by completing the game's Classic mode, playing through World of Light, or fighting a certain amount of battles.